throughout the thousands of years of documented history, every now and then someone comes around who literally changes the world. geniuses with novel ideas that alter the course of humanity: people like issac newton, albert einstein, jesus.

i am not one of those people, but i do have a lot of ideas. most of them... aren't great. but sometimes you gotta get through the bad ideas to get to the good ones. and yeah, this is definitely one of the bad ones.

[iron pineapple-esque intro (overloaded, pacifist, etc)]

can you beat elden ring with a rubiks cube? now look i know the first thing you're probably thinking is why? why do that? because it'd be FUNNY and people on the internet would like it. and the second thing you're probably thinking is: how is that even possible? it's a plastic cube that does nothing but cause stress and confusion. and yeah maybe for YOU but for me i'm actually pretty alright at it, nothing crazy though.

the main hurdle is answering the question: how do i take a piece of plastic and turn it into a functioning gaming controller? and i think i know just how to do that.

[cube intro and tech shit]

so one night recently i was completely and entirely sober and, as sober people tend to do, they stumble onto chinese rubiks cube websites. i happened to come across a website and found this: the gan356 i 3 smart cube. it's just like a regular cube except it has bluetooth capabilities. now apparently you're supposed to use it by connecting the cube to their app and it'll show you stats for your solves and stuff but fuck all that i wanna break it. see according to the product description, you get "ultra-precise tracking, gyroscope-based motion capture, and up to 15 hours of playtime." fortunately nobody has ever lied about the capabilities of their product just to get sales before, so i am sure this will work great.

so i got the cube and took it out of the box and shit and figured i should test out how functional it really is. i tried to connect the cube to their official app but then i realized it's all in chinese which i probably should have expected. so i skipped all that and decided to just go and figure it out myself. i might not be able to read chinese but i can read data. all i have to do is setup a script to check what the cube is sending over bluetooth and... ah yes it's all fucking encrypted who would've guessed. turns out companies don't want you messing with and breaking their products, but i'm gonna do it anyway.

now i have the fun task of figuring out what all of this shit means. ladies and gentlemen i've figured out what all of this shit means. 

now instead of a jumbled mess we have actual words and numbers that i can read. the cube is pretty much constantly spitting out information about it's state in a bunch of different ways. like if i turn one of the cube faces, it knows that and sends me that updated info. but more importantly, they weren't lying about that gyroscope-based motion capture. after slamming my head against a wall for a few hours trying to figure out what the fuck a quaternion is, i managed to actually stream the coordinate data that represents the rotation of the cube in real life which made me feel happy for a couple seconds. now they advertised it as "ultra-precise tracking" so i wanted to see how precise that really is.

when you use a mouse or a ps5 controller to play a game or buy a new monitor you probably care about how many hz it is, how many times per second you're getting updates. gaming mice these days range anywhere from 1000 to 8000 hz. a ps5 controller or a new gaming monitor usually range between 240 to 500 hz. the cube gets about... 14. 14 hz. and that's on a good day. there were some days where i tested this and it would end up under 10. to show you visually just how bad it is, this is footage which will represent the ps5 controller at 240hz scaled down to 60fps for youtube. and this footage represents the cube at 14hz scaled down proportionally to... 4fps. so yeah... they lied. i spent $60 on this shit.

[controls]

anyway, it's just gonna have to work. what's important now is that when we do something with the cube, it gets reported here. fantastic. now we just need to figure out how to map controls from a ps5 controller to the cube, and this part is a lot easier. the cube has 6 faces and each face can be turned clockwise or counterclockwise so we have 12 different slots to bind later on which is more than enough. the part that wasn't as easy was the realization that, oh shit, a controller has two sticks for movement: one for the character itself and one for the camera. i only have one stick... and it's not even a stick. 

here's the solution i came up with: we have 3 axies to move on so we have pitch, yaw, and roll. pitch is just tilting the cube forward or backward, so this made sense to simulate the left stick moving forward and backward. i made roll be responsible for moving the left stick left or right. then lastly yaw was responsible for turning the camera on the right stick left or right. which means i'm just missing one thing, moving the camera up and down... yeah, i just simply will not have that ability... i just ran out of rotations what do you want from me. but for what it's worth, after spending like 8 hours trying to get the orientations right to get the actual desired result, it doesn't feel too bad. i even managed to make it so that if i tilted the cube far enough forward, i would automatically sprint. this definitely isn't going to cause me a ton of problems later on, but let's just pretend i didn't say that.

it was at this point that it felt reasonably possible that i could actually play with this thing. i spent an hour or so figuring out the optimal binds to play with, and i eventually settled on this:

i had to think about which faces felt the easiest and most natural to use and for me that was the top and bottom face. i could flick these with my index and ring fingers in both directions, so i felt that these should be for the most crucial 4 buttons. 

on the top side, i decided to bind roll and light attack. because i'd have to often string these together, i didn't want to put them somewhere where i'd need to break my wrist hundreds of times a day to execute. 

on the bottom side, i put jump and heavy attack. jump r2 attacks do a ton of damage and require just a handful of brain cells to pull off which is perfect for someone like me.

on the left side, i put square and triangle. square to use items and heal and triangle to pick up and interact with stuff. 

on the right side, i put l2 to use ashes of war. there are a ton of them, and if i'm going to actually stand any chance of getting through this, i'm gonna need to be able to use them. i also made a bind specifically to call in torrent. now i usually put torrent in my extra pouch at the bottom, but this would require me to hold down triangle and then press down on the dpad. how the fuck am i supposed to hold down a turn on the cube? so i went in and explicitly put in some logic for whenever i make this specific face turn, to execute those two button presses together.

on the back side, i saved these slots for buttons i would need to press, but maybe not so often, so i opted for r3 to lock onto enemies because there is absolutely zero fucking way i can play this without locking on, and also a bind to two hand my weapon.

then lastly the front face is used entirely for swapping through weapons and items, so right on the dpad and down on the dpad.

and that's it. i finally had a somewhat kind of functioning cube controller. i really wasn't even sure that this was going to be possible at the start so getting this far had me optimistic... and now, the only thing left to do was actually beat the game.

[game footage starts]

[farming]

in order to make my life as hard as possible, i decided to start with the wretch class at level 1. i decided to make my character red because i am going to be angry this entire time. i also gave him the frieren haircut because i thought it would be cute.

so i spawned in, ran out and immediately noticed i was blocking for some reason. this was particularly confusing because i never actually binded the left bumper to anything which is how you block, so there's that. i managed to actually hit the tutorial boss a single time which was more than i thought i would get. but i arrived in limgrave, ran over to the gatefront site of grace, talked to melina, and got torrent. 

the problem is now i had to actually figure out what to do. i didn't realistically think i would get this far, so i never actually planned out a route or how to go about this, so i'm just gonna wing the entire thing. the first thing would be to get some levels on me, so you already know where i'm going. because i started with the wretch, i only have a club on me, so i needed to grab a bleed weapon. i went to fight the bloody finger summon in the river near gatefront. i imagined this fight would be pretty easy because you actually automatically get the friendly summon Yura to help fight him. and then i remembered i'm level 1.

yeah, he basically one shots me as you'd expect. but eventually i was able to kite long enough, get a couple hits in, and let Yura finish him off to get the reduvia dagger. this is a good time to mention one of the biggest problems i'll experience this entire run. it goes without saying that the creators of this piece of plastic never expected anyone to use it in this way for such a long time. without warning the cube will sometimes freeze up for multiple seconds at a time or just disconnect entirely. i could be running on torrent somewhere or in the middle of a fight or being one hit away from beating a boss and all of a sudden i can't do anything. i'm just stuck on whatever the last movement was until i tab out and reconnect the cube. i never could figure out if it was overheating or if i was connecting it the wrong way or if the fbi was sitting outside my house aiming a jammer at my window. the only way i can explain it is like you're playing a game on like 70 ping and then every now and then without any warning or reason, your ping spikes to like 4000 for a couple seconds with no guarantee it'll go back to normal.

but all despite that, i made it to the third church of marika, got the physick flask, and took the portal to the top of caelid. i made my way outside, went across the bridge, and got the site of grace by first farm i could think of. if you didn't know, running down this hill spawns in this ball behind you, and if you run to the right and make the ball fall off the cliff, you actually get a couple thousand runes for it. let's just say i'm gonna be using this... a lot. this is perfect for me because at level 1, i don't really wanna fight anything... at all. so i sat here for a few minutes, died a couple times, and eventually leveled up to level 11 so i can equip the reduvia dagger. i made my way all the way down the hill over to fort faroth, went inside, grabbed the right half of the dectus medallion for later, and managed to somehow make the jump across to grab radagon's soreseal on my first attempt.

this is perfect for early game because i get 5 levels into vigor, endurance, strength, and dexterity while only increasing my damage taken by 15%. then, of course, i ran outside to greyoll and proceeded to spam r1 with reduvia for the next 5 minutes until he died. i've never killed this boss "legit" and i don't think i ever will. using the 75000 runes i got from killing him, i went and leveled up all the way to level 32.

since i was in caelid, i figured i would go and grab my most beloved weapon: the greatsword. normally you need 31 strength to properly hold this, but because of radagon's soreseal and the 50% scaling buff you get from two-handing a weapon, i could use it already. i went to the cathedral of dragon communion next. there's a single banished knight standing outside, and every time you kill him he has a chance of dropping any piece of the banished knight set. it's one of the better armor sets in the game and i figured i should try and get it now. i sat here killing him for probably 15-20 minutes, lost all my runes a couple times, and, finally, i got a drop. it's the sword... that i don't want. so i went back at it, killed him some more, and got another drop. it's the shield... that i also don't want. after literally 45 minutes i managed to get the entire armor set which i can't even wear because i'd be overloaded, so helmet and gauntlets are gonna have to do for now.

[tree sentinel]

by now i was getting somewhat comfortable with the controls, it felt more and more natural running around and looting and killing enemies, so i decided it was time for a challenge. it's time to fight the tree sentinel. the boss that filters out every new player who doesn't realize they can just run right past the fucking guy. it knew this was going to be a stressful fight. i had no idea how much damage i'd do even though i'd leveled up quite a bit. it wasn't off to a good start, the cube took over and decided to start lagging heavily. my inputs were coming out seconds later than they should've and i knew this was going to be a wipe. but then, divine intervention. somehow he missed me. i don't even know myself what happened from here on out. it was like something took over me. my jump r2 monkey brain kicked in and i was actually doing pretty good damage. even better, i wasn't getting one shot. i burned through all my heals and it came down to the wire, but somehow, someway, i managed to kill it on my first attempt.

[margit]

with this confidence i booked it straight to the first main boss: margit. and my first run was actually going pretty good as well, but around half hp he breaks out a couple new moves with his golden daggers and hammer and i got caught. and then the next attempt i got caught again by the same exact move because i do not learn from my mistakes. but my third attempt went a bit better, actually a lot better. i was trading back and forth with him, getting a lot of hits in, and eventually he staggered. the lower and lower his health got, the more and more i could feel the the cube acting up. my inputs would lag more and more. at some point, i just decided to stay as close as possible to him in hopes that he would just swing over me and miss and that my delayed attacks would eventually one day execute and hopefully hit him. and i kept this up as long as i could until... 

yeah, i managed to get him on my third try. i honestly wasn't really expecting this. every fight that i win feels so much better than you could imagine and getting through the first major boss was a big mental hurdle. 

[stormveil]

next was time for stormveil castle. first order of business was removing gostoc from the face of this earth for all the times he's robbed me without my knowledge. then i lost a 1v1 to a bird. i ran through the left side of the castle, grabbed the rusty key, killed the knight, then ran off the edge and died. this is where the cube lag gets super painful. if i'm up on a high ledge or need to have even the slightest bit of accurate movement, i am entirely at the mercy of the flimsy bluetooth connection between the cube and my pc.

much like in real life, birds are my worst enemy in this game. because i lock onto every enemy and birds fly, i usually will automatically be looking upward after killing any bird. but if you remember, i don't have control over looking up and down with my camera. so i'm stuck looking into the sky. however, i have to break out the ancient esoteric knowledge for a hidden technique. i learned that if you just spin your camera directly left or directly right for long enough, you'll eventually reset your camera to be level again. this is a very important method and i'm going to be using it a lot in this run.

another important method is what i'm calling the shimmy. again, because i can't look down and because of the random lag, getting accurate positioning can be pretty hard sometimes. however, with the shimmy method, if i just sit the cube down on my desk and very gently tilt it in the direction i'm trying to go, i'll slowly inch myself into position.

[godrick]

after wandering through stormveil castle for awhile, it was time to make the final sprint to the site of grace before godrick. fighting all the enemies here isn't really any option. i can barely handle one enemy, 30 is not happening. i tried running through, got to the last staircase, and then the cube disconnects. and then it happened again. and then it happened again. but eventually i made it. i wanted to go in and give it a little heat check since i kinda ran through the last two bosses.

yeah godrick wasn't exactly having it. godrick isn't typically a big challenge in runs, but with the input lag and his AOE moves that kept catching me off guard, i figured i needed a bit more. i knew the claw talisman was in stormveil castle and with how much i'm spamming the jump r2, i figured i should go get it. but, of course, i have to do even more platforming. but we're in luck, the shimmy method. it's slow but it works. i got to the last section, almost died at the very end, but pulled through and grabbed the talisman.

honestly it didn't do that much. it helped of course, but i just kept losing it at some point from some AOE attack that i just couldn't space or some projectile that literally came out of fucking nowhere. also, you know what else barely works? the crits. i could be standing right infront of the bosses head, hit r1, and i just end up swinging the sword like a fucking idiot. i died again, and again, and again, and eventually, i got this run.

[liurnia / caelid sidequest]

with my first shardbearer down, i had made it to liurnia. i grabbed another sacred tear. then made my way all the way to the raya lucaria crystal tunnel so i could get the smithing stone miners bell bearing 1 that drops after defeating the crystalian at the end. up until this point i was using an un-upgraded weapon and it felt like time to start. i went back to the roundtable, leveled it up to level 6, then went on my next sidequest back to caelid. inside fort gael are two things that will be very important to our run. first is flame grant me strength which is one of the most basic but most valuable incantations in the game. it boosts your physical and fire damage by 20% as well as your stamina recovery by 10%. 

second is lions claw, an ash of war that is perfect for the greatsword. it does a ton of damage and gives you hyperarmor so that you can use it without getting knocked out of attacks. the problem is that i have to get inside the fort to get this, and even though they could just open the fucking gate, i have to yet again do some parkour. i have to jump around this sketchy tree branch, not die to this spear guy, then once i get to the top of the ladder i have to walk on this tight beam without falling and without aggroing this guy which clearly doesn't always go well. and then, and only then, do i get a chance to get the ash of war, by killing this elder lion. 

this took me 45 real life minutes.

[raya lucaria / rellana]

but anyway i went back to the roundtable and equipped it with the heavy attunement and had a build i was pretty comfortable with for the moment. i ran up the left side of liurnia, found the homie iji, grabbed a golden seed, grabbed the academy key, and made my way into raya lucaria. now every time i've ever gone here, i run past the burger king guys, open the door, and die to these spinny cage guys but i think this is the first time i've ever made it through, got the grace and didn't immediately die. i pretty much booked it all the way through the castle until i got to the red wolf of radagon. i hate this fucking thing. it jumps around so much. it spams magic. it has such little health and the fact that i only needed to hit him like 5 or 6 times but still died to it so much drove me insane. then to top it all off the cube would work it's own magic by just breaking multiple times back to back. so yeah, this had me really annoyed. but nothing could prepare me for what was next. not moongrum, he got nuked.

renalla, oh renalla. oh how i despised this woman. the first phase of this fight is generally one of the easiest things in the entire game. just hit all the crawlers that are golden ring on them, don't get hit by the flying books, and it's over before you know it. but guess what? not for me. if i was going insane from rage before, this one just short circuited my brain. i can barely control the camera with this thing, so i was using the lock on system to sort of take that out of the equation. the problem is that when there's 30 idiots crawling around on the floor and you only want one of them, your task basically becomes fucking impossible. i'd try and lock onto something directly infront of me, then i'd lock onto something across the room. this basically forced me to do this first phase with no camera lock. but that's fine it's not that bad. well, eventually i knocked her on the floor, i couldn't even use lions claw properly because for some reason i would just fling off to the side. usually you phase her within one or two knockdowns, but because of how challenging it was to just make contact with her sometimes, it would often take me 3 or 4 knockdowns to make it work. then on other runs i couldn't even manage to hit the crawlers on the ground who literally aren't fucking moving i just couldn't do it. oh and then the stupid ass song they sing like i started disassociating from hearing it because i kept hearing them say "anvil" and then i started thining about how renalla is not a blacksmith and was very confused. 

just the first phase of every attempt took me 4 to 5 minutes. then i would finally, finally make it to the second phase and then she would spam me with like 3 spells at once or summon a giant troll to drone strike me from outer space and i'd get to do it all over again. then as always the cube would have it's own incident and i'd have to restart it but sometimes even restarting it doesn't fix the problem so i'd literally have to sit here and solve the cube to get it's gyroscope internally aligned or something at least that's what i told myself because once i did that it would start to actually perform a little better for awhile. so i'm sitting here furious after dying to this easy ass boss being forced to solve a rubiks cube to give myself a better chance at the run.

but with enough perserverence and brain damage, you can do anything. i got through the first phase, got a nice stagger near the start of the second phase, then got lucky with her choice of summon for this attempt and she managed to, finally, go down.

i really needed a change of scenery after that so i decided to immediately leave. since i had taken down two shardbearers, i could make my way to altus plateau. i just needed to stop at fort haight to grab the other half of the dectus medallion. i got to altus, got some golden seeds along the way, got the second smithing stone bell bearing, and upgraded my greatsword to +12. i figured i'd give the cube a break and decided to call it a day here. i got on the next day and decided to fight the godskin apostle in the windmill village. i'm not really sure what compelled me to do this, but i did... i died to it 26 times. i really don't know what happened i don't wanna talk about it.

[radahn]

now i know that with godrick and renalla down, there's no real reason for me to have to fight radahn, but i decided to do it anyway. radahn is a cool fight and i figured it would be a shame to not fight him on this run. i had made it to altus already, so that automatically activated the radahn festival, so i could just run straight to the boss. so i did just that... and i died without even touching him. as is the common theme with this run, this fight sucks dick. there are of course many different summons around the arena to spawn in. you just have to run over the sign, hit triangle, and they'll spawn in. well, there's a couple problems with that. first off is getting torrent to actually run where i want him to, he has a lot of trouble cooperating. second, because i am running pretty quickly and there's input lag from when i input the triangle move  with the cube to when it actually hits the game, i have to predict ahead of time when to press it to actually get the summon to spawn in. slowing down isn't really an option because he'll hit me for 90% of my health.

so, we have to introduce yet another hidden method: the pinwheel. the pinwheel is a very elegant technique. because getting the actual timing down of when to press it is much harder than it seems due to input delay that's out of my control, this method says fuck timing anything just spam and hope for the best. so as i run over the summons, i spin the left side of the cube and just pray. that's the entire strat. it actually works pretty well. the problem comes when i actually have to fight him. he's big and he runs around... a lot. his swings hit a much larger area than it really seems like, and i got hit by a lot of collateral damage from him swinging at the summons. and because i don't have individual control over where i'm running and the camera at the same time, positioning was really hard. i died a lot. so much that i actually felt the need to visit my trusty ball a few more times to level vigor and endurance a bit more. i came back, managed to summon everyone in, and even managed to resummon a few after he entered his second phase. eventually he went down. is this the most interesting way to beat him? no, but honestly i do not care. i didn't technically need to even fight him, and the summons are in the arena and clearly part of the fight, but whatever, he's dead.

[journey to/through volcano]

after fighting radahn i needed a bit of a break, so i went to just go pick up a few more sacred tears around some churches that i forgot as well as paying a visit to some dogs that are guarding the turtle talisman which should help my stamina recovery a bit. just need to put in the stonesword key... and fuck me i don't have one. just put in the stonesword key and grab it out of the chest.

then i remembered that since i made it to altus, i have easy access to mount gelmir and volcano manor. i made the run over, spent like 10 minutes climbing ladders, tried fighting the fallingstar beast a grand total of 1 time before deciding i cannot be bothered, and eventually made it to the manor. i made it behind the manor, ran through the entire area as fast as i could, got sucked off in a dark room by an enemy that i honestly do not remember existing, and then opened the bridge shortcut that gets a sick ass cutscene for some reason. and now it's time to fight the lone godskin noble. and you can probably already guess how this is going to go. 

[godskin noble]

it's yet another boss that shouldn't really be that hard that for some reason is just the worst experience of my life. like yes, everyone knows his roll move is annoying, that's nothing new. yes, he can stab you through the pillars that are here for some reason, that's nothing new as well. but holy shit if this wasn't one of the worst moments in the run. he would walk behind the pillars, and if he's out of my site for too long, my camera unlocks, and trust me in this stupid ass room it's almost an impossible task to relock on. trying to get him stuck on a pole while rolling would work sometimes, and then he'd decide fuck that and just slip right past it. i'd stagger him, then the cube would decide to just stop responding while trying to hit the crit. i'd get him to 1 hit, then die. i'd run in for a jump r2, then bounce off his stomach onto an object i didn't even know i could stand on, then die behind a pole to his fat ass gut. i'd get him to 1 hit and have him staggered, walk up to hit the crit, then just do a normal attack and die. my blood pressure probably doubled fighting him, so the relief i felt when i got this run was unmatched.

[deaths poker + rewrite]

i actually had to go to bed after fighting him because if i played anymore i might have ended up in the hospital. the next day i had a change of heart, i realized i was using the greatsword for quite some time and while yes, i could beat the game with it, probably, i wanna try something else. in caelid, this death rite bird that only spawns at night drops the deaths poker, a greatsword with a really nice ash of war on it that could melt bosses. the problem is that... well, i have to kill the death rite bird. i hate these things on a normal playthrough and i hate them just as much in nightreign, so using the cube to beat it wasn't going to be much more enjoyable. i tried a few times normally but his head is so annoying to hit and with how much he moves it i can barely get any attacks in. i decided to try and use holy water pots against it since holy damage is super strong against undead enemies, and yeah, they did a ton. i just had to use them to get him low and then go in to get the last few hits in... and die. and then i'd run out of pots so i'd need to go make more and yeah... this took longer than it should've. on the run where i beat him, he kind of just stood there as i took massive chunks off his health bar. but regardless, i got the deaths poker. this is a somber weapon, so heading back to the homie iji and let me get the deaths poker up to +4 right away. it causes frost build up, and the ash of war on it when combined with a light attack causes this line of ghostflame that sort of just sits there for a few seconds and hits multiple times for massive damage.

so great, it's a new day, we have a new weapon, you know what else we need? that's right. a brand new complete rewrite of the code that i've been using for the entire video so far. the behavior of the cube really started to frustrate me. the random freezes started to become more and more frequent. inputs seemed to drop more and more often. i couldn't use the cube for more than like 30 miunutes without needing to let the cube rest for a bit. i took my original code from a couple thousand lines of code down to just a few hundred. i removed a lot of the "enhancements" and "protective" things i put in place and stripped it down to the bare necessities. basically, anything that might introduce some lag or extra processing, i removed. and this is what happened.

so yeah, at this point, i don't know if i fixed it. i don't know if it's better or if it's worse. but regardless, i do know that it works just as well with a lot less bloat, and that's pretty good. i also added support for multiple sets of keybinds. for example, if i'm in the world and i want to call in torrent, i can do that easily, but if i'm in a boss fight, that input slot is basically going unused. but now, i can swap between multiple sets of keybinds with the press of a button, and swap torrents input to something else... like an incantation.

[dts]

to test out my brand new custom made technology, i went to fight the draconic tree sentinel guarding the capital entrance. now i could fight him normally... or... i could go to the weeping peninsula, spend a few minutes trying to kill this beetle before realizing i, infact, cannot kill it without a ranged weapon, leave to buy a crossbow, come back and kill it to get the poison mist incantation, buy a finger seal, then run all the way back to the draconic tree sentinel to sneak up behind him and use poison mist, then wait 15 real life minutes and kill him that way. and that's what i did. now to be honest with you, i fully intended to kill him normally, but i was also pretty hungry and this seemed like a good opportunity to make progress and eat at the same time so yeah.

[capital/goldfrey]

but finally, we made it to leyndell. and seeing the capital made me realize how far into the game i actually was. i ran all the way through the buildings, down to the street below just a few steps away from the site of grace, got dumpstered by the erdtree avatar. i came back, got the grace, climbed up the dragon wing, past the gargoyle, up the tree, and made it to piss godfrey... and died without landing a single hit. but honestly he wasn't too bad, i like godfreys moveset and i've had a lot of practice with him over the years because he used to absolutely shit on me. he's still an input reading piece of shit though like look at this he dashes at me on the first frame of me drinking my flask. but yeah i managed to get him on my fourth try. and then like 5 seconds after i sat at the site of grace the cube had one of it's moments and got really excited and wanted to run around in circles so i guess i didn't fix shit.

[volcano manor quests / rykard]

before i move on in the capital, i remembered i had some unfinished business in volcano manor. i grabbed a somber 6 i forgot to pick up along the way, upgraded the deaths poker again, then spoke to bernahl to do some of the volcano manor quests. i invaded some poor guy, killed him, then got another quest to go and help bernahl kill two NPCs in leyndell. we did that and i was rewarded with the raging wolf armor set which to be honest is worse than the banished knight armor set in most ways but it looks cool as fuck and now i can wear a chest piece without being heavy load so that's pretty cool.

back at volcano manor i decided it was time to fight rykard. i didn't think this was going to be too awful going in. in a way it's a gimmick fight and you get to use the serpent hunter in the arena, and yeah, my first attempt i did decent damage so i wasn't too worried. i realized i could just run into the lava beneath him and tank it because it really didn't do too much damage at all and he actually can barely hit you here. just broke out the ol' trusty jump r2 and chunked the everliving shit out of him. didn't really have any issues and it only took me like 4 tries.

[upgrades / morgott]

the next day i got on with a few goals in mind, all of which invovled getting some kind of upgrades. i got the ritual shield talisman from leyndell and the ritual sword talisman from the lux ruins in altus to give me both a defense and attack buff when i'm full hp. i went to buy radahns armor for... i actually don't remember why i did that, i think i just remembered that i could so i did. i got the intelligence tear and the magic, lightning, and holy cracked tears from the erdtree avatar, all found in liurnia. and now with the new talismans equipped and my physick filled with the intelligence tear and the magic tear to buff deaths poker even more, i wanted to give morgott a try.

as usual, i died without getting a single hit in. but then i tried again, and just look what i do to this poor old man. the deaths poker itself scales off of strength and dexterity, but the ash of war scales with intelligence. so with the intelligence tear giving me an extra +10 to intelligence and the magic cracked tear giving me +20% magic damage which is the damage type that the ash of war does for some reason even though it's called ghostFLAME, anyway, all that plus the talisman buff resulted in this broken ass build.

but i wanted to push it even further. next i decided to make my way into the sewers beneath new york city. i got jumped by a pack of imps, but i came back, grabbed a somber stone 7, grabbed mohgs shackle for later, went back to caelid to get a somber stone 8, and upgraded again with iji, all before making my way into the forbidden lands and ultimately the grand lift of rold to bring me to the mountaintops of the giants.

[fire giant]

and after like 10 minutes of just sprinting on torrent, i made it to the fire giants arena. i wasn't really sure how this one was going to go. he has like 40,000 hp and is resistant to frostbite which is what i've been relying on but uh... no, that's not even an issue i did like 10,000 damage in a few seconds. on my first attempt i got him down to like 25% hp so i was feeling pretty good about it. i just played it normally and sat right by his leg and spammed whenever i could. this worked fine for most of the time, until he eventually decides to reposition and just rolls over me when he's like one hit away from dying or one of those fireballs just decides to spawn right beside me and jumpscare me into dying. but really all i had to do was not be shit for like 3 minutes which is asking a lot of me actually but yeah i just melted this guy. honestly the hardest part of fighting him wasn't even the fight itself, it was running up this fucking chain afterwards. i died more trying to just get up this chain than i did to the fire giant itself.

but eventually after more tries than i'd like to admit, i made it up, rested at the forge, spoke to melina, burned the tree, and made it to farum azula.

[farum]

running through the start of farum azula was pretty normal until i got to the tempest facing balcony site of grace. now there wasn't anything particularly hard here except for the fact that, again, i cannot look down. and there's some pretty precise platforming you need to do here, so every time i made progress, it was basically a complete gamble on where to jump next. and of course, every time i inevitably messed up, i'd have to do all of the original jumps again while beastmen would throw shit at me or just gang up on me. plus to make things even worse i'd mess up the easiest jumps possible which was annoying when i'd already made the hard jumps. so this little section of the map here that should've taken maybe 30 seconds took more like 10 minutes to get through. but eventually i made it through. and if you didn't know, you can actually turn around at this site of grace, jump down, and run through the lower section to a site of grace right beside the godskin duo fight which is a lot faster than the regular run back. but now it was time to fight the godskin duo, and if the previous two solo fights against the apostle and noble are any sign of what this is going to be like, i am not looking forward to this.

[godskin duo / to maliketh]

to make my life easier for once and to prevent me from ending it all during this fight, i went to collect a bunch of trinas lilys in liurnia and crafted a handful of sleep pots to use during the fight. they're both super weak to sleep, and considering how much damage i can burst out at once with ghostflame ignition, if i can just put both of them to sleep, i can get free damage in while they're recovering without losing what's left of my sanity. so i did just that, i put both of them to sleep, ran up to the apostle and used the ash of war and by the time he managed to stand up, he was already dead. i did the same thing with the godskin noble and nuked him as well. once the apostle respawned, i just threw another sleep pot at him, used ghostflame ignition, and that was the fight. i somehow actually first tried them and could barely believe it myself. i was rewarded with the smithing stone bell bearing 4 which makes upgrading weapons later on super easy.

i ran outside to the ancient dragon, killed it to get an ancient dragon smithing stone and also picked up the ancient somber stone right beside it. and then i, once again, fucked up a jump and had to run all the way back only to die again in the same exact place. but at last, i've made it to the site of grace before maliketh. but before i go in, i wanted to take a detour to go and finish bernahls questline. so i ran to the left, went down the ladder, and definitely didn't forget that there are 3 beastmen ready to attack you in the room... twice. but i ended up killing bernahl and was rewarded with the beast champion armor and the blasphemous claw which helps in the fight against maliketh that i definitely will not forget to use. i went to quickly grab a somber 9 from caelid that i forgot to get earlier, then went back to iji to max out my deaths poker to +10. and now it's time for maliketh.

[maliketh]

well actually the draconic tree sentinel first. just needed to uhhh... die 7 times first. to be honest i was dreading this fight the entire playthrough. it was always in the back of my mind for some reason just ominously sitting there. i think i just knew that the first phase of fighting the beast clergyman was going to be awful. his moveset is super annoying with the projectiles, the swipes, and the AOE moves that take up a huge area. he gets into this mode where he just strings together some kind of infinite combo and my openings felt super slim. plus whenever he would end up behind the pillar for too long, my camera would automatically unlock, and relocking on is a challenge in itself. i was doing big damage, but so was he. i managed to phase him in a few attempts actually, but if the clergyman was moving a lot already, maliketh wasn't going to be any easier. he's constantly backflipping, flying, spinning, just really doing anything but staying on the fucking ground it feels like. whenever he was on the ground, i did my best to position properly so that he would kind of just walk through the ghostflame on the ground which seemed to work pretty well.

i was here for awhile. like, an hour and a half. until i eventually had a good run.

[gideon]

i got teleported back to the ashen capital. all i have to do is run up the stairs, go up the elevator, and one shot gideon, this shouldn't be too bad... oh. ok. i'll just go back in and get him on my second try oh ok nevermind. maybe he just got lucky oh ok nevermind i'm just getting fucking blown up. as is the typical case with this run, i get stuck on shit that i really shouldn't get stuck on. see the issue with not killing gideon on your first attempt is that on any subsequent attempts, you have to make your way all the way across the room to get to gideon while he's spamming spells at you, which all managed to almost 100 to 0 me. he has basically infinite mana and almost zero cooldowns, so using ghostflame on him felt next to impossible because of the windup time. i died, again, and again, and again, and again. for a moment i thought this might actually unironically be the end of the run. i just could not do anything to this guy. i stopped to look up some armor that has high magic defense, but they're all so fucking far away that i just couldn't be bothered to go get it or they were at the end of some kind of long quest that i was locked out of at this point. i could've grabbed barrier of gold which gives me 60% magic resist, the only problem is that the area you get it is fucking locked away after you kill maliketh, so i was fucked there too. i ended up settling with magic fortification which gives me 35% magic resistance. so i went in to see how much it helps... and yeah it did fucking nothing because half of his spells do holy damage not magic damage. but eventually i figured out a strategy, if i could manage to survive the initial run in and make it to him, which was a big IF, i could kind of force him into this area where there's a few pillars which i could use to block certain spells of his while i casted ghostflame ignition. once i got him low enough, i said fuck it and just ran at him and hoped for the best.

[godfrey]

with gideon dead, the only thing standing between me and the final boss was godfrey. now i've fought godfrey millions of times over the years, but i've never used this specific weapon against him... and i've also never used a fucking rubiks cube controller either but that's besides the point. it took a bit of getting used to, a lot of openings that i would usually try and punish i had to retrain my brain to avoid taking advantage of. a lot of the time it was a coinflip whether or not my attack or dodge would actually go off in time. then i had to deal with the nightmare that was trying to crit the boss after i staggered them which just still never seems to fucking work. but i managed to get the first phase down pretty quickly since i had already fought the golden version of him at this point. hoarah loux though, oh man. this guy is relentless. the first time i phased him i spawned in the middle of fucking nowhere and immediately died, which was fun. he just has these really long combos that require you to dodge a lot of times and i realistically could not rely on my cube to accurately input all of them without dropping at least one input which basically meant losing over half my hp.

i went most of the game without using any incantations, but i figured that since i had them and the slot was empty at this point, i replaced magic fortification with flame grant me strength alongside the old lords talisman to get a 30% extension to the damage buff to see just how much it helps and uh... yeah it does help quite a bit who would've guessed. on my first attempt with flame grant me strength, i phased him really quick, it was just me, hoarax loux, and just a few hits left... and i get grabbed and die. it's okay i'll get him next try andddddd nevermind. but eventually, i saw my chance.

[radagon / elden beast]

and with godfrey out of the way, only one fight remains... and this fight tested the rest of my patience. and i know someone out there is saying, "what do you mean? this fight isn't even hard at all" blah blah blah shut up. ever since this game came out, i have despised radagon as a fight. i am horrible at it. i hate it. i think the arena is boring as shit. i think his moveset sucks. basically every single attack of his contains or ends with some AOE explosion with a specific timing to properly dodge. i could go on forever. it really wasn't even a matter of damage, i did a ton as usual, but i couldn't reliably dodge his attacks to save my life. i went and grabbed the haligdrake talisman from the stranded graveyard for some holy resistance. it didn't help at all. i got the godskin apostle armor set which has high holy resistance. nope still getting absolutely ran over. 

after an hour and a half, i managed to phase him... once... only to immediately die to the elden beast. one fucking time. i don't really know why but this boss is my kryptonite. but as the saying goes, with enough suffering and mental torment you can accomplish anything. i wouldn't say i mastered radagon, but i got decent enough to phase him somewhat consistently. elden beast was something different entirely. elden beast is not a hard fight, it's actually pretty easy. the hard part was not losing my mind from chasing it around the arena for minutes at a time without getting a chance to attack. i think it has these scripted moves that it has to go through at specific parts of it's health, and because i did so much at the start of the fight, it would just queue these up back to back to back and i'd spend minutes just waiting for it to fucking relax... only to die at the end of it all. and then i'd go back in, phase radagon, chase the elden beast some more, and die again in the same fucking way. and yeah i know i can summon torrent in for this part but i was just in a blacked out rage at this point and had to brute force my way through it. and sometimes if you're lucky, brute force can work.

somehow, someway, i managed to beat elden beast and, by extension, beat elden ring with nothing but a rubiks cube. but... let's be real, the job isn't finished, is it?

[post game]

you think i'd come all this way just to end it here? of course not, so i went and grabbed one half of the secret medallion by killing a homeless man, then made my way over to castle sol, made commander niall my bitch, and grabbed the other half of the medallion, and found the secret path to the haligtree. i ran through the void, died to a tree, and ended up at ordina. but before i do that, i remembered the portal to mohgwyn palace is here as well, so i spent 5 minutes running around looking the entrance to the portal, killed the wrong npc, died to the actual npc i needed to kill, then killed him to gain access to the portal. now that i'm here, i have access to the most popular farming spot in the game. using the rememberance weapon from the elden beast fight, i pretty much now have access to infinite levels if i want them, but i felt like level 112 was a sweet spot for where i was at.

before i fight mohg, i figured i should prepare for the fight first. i went to gather the lord of bloods exultation talisman, and i only got lost for 20 minutes. this gives you 20% attack power for 20% when there's blood loss in the area. i wanted to switch up my weapon for the time being, and what better weapon to use than the best strength weapon in the base game. so i went to level it up, maxed it out with the heavy attunement, then went to fight eleonora to get the purifying crystal tear. i swapped out the physick to include that as well as a strength tear for more damage, then went straight to mohgs arena. earlier while in the sewers i grabbed mohgs shackle. i know that he has some moves that he is forced to use, and i wanted to see how much i could do to him before that happened. on my second try, i managed to do this.

yeah, second try. the giant crusher with this setup just does that much and i don't even think i had an entirely optimal build.

[ordina]

with him out of the way, it was time for me to do the puzzle in ordina to get access to the haligtree. one problem: i hate that fucking puzzle. i know there's a skip you can do to get around the wall that's blocked off, but uh... yeah on the cube it just isn't happening. soooo puzzle it is i guess. 

[haligtree]

i'm sure it'll go great. so with only a few popped blood vessels, i opened the portal, arrived at the haligtree, and got distracted by a shiny object and immediately fell off and died. 

it was a stonesword key. i risked my life for a stonesword key. i thought running down here was going to be pretty annoying. after all, it's platforming and i can't look down. but the branches are pretty thick and i fell through a hole i thought would kill me but no, it was pretty simple. i made it all the way past all the enemies and just had to climb down the ladder... which is apparently impossible.

running through the haligtree is pretty simple except for when it isn't. but i unlocked the elevator shortcut and went back to fight loretta. i've fought her a ton in nightreign so i figured that it shouldn't be that bad but uhh yeah i suck at this game so of course it's going to be difficult. she is surprisingly mobile and jumps a lot and also does a fuck ton of damage. who would've guessed.

then sometimes i'd forget to practice self care and forget to send the elevator back up before running in the arena so i'd just have to sit and wait for it. then other times i wouldn't even make it to the arena and somehow run off the edge immediately after spawning so this made me a lot angrier than it really should have. but eventually i took her down, climbed down the world's biggest ladder, grabbed another ancient smithing stone, and just booked it through this area. there are a ton of enemies here and fighting them would suck even more than it already does. the issue is that i haven't run through here in a while and kind of forgot where to go. i got impaled by a ballista, realized my ass should not be here, then went the actual way i was supposed to go which didn't exactly work perfectly either but you know i ended up where i was supposed to be. i ran through the rot lake, missed two different jumps, and started making my way across these pillars to get to the roof of this building. inside is the dragoncrest greatshield talisman. this reduces all physical damage by 20%. but it's guarded by the most annoying piece of shit rope shooter enemies in the entire game. but i got it. i went downstairs, took the elevator, and at last made it to malenia.

[malenia]

i think it goes without saying that malenia is pretty difficult no matter what kind of playthrough you're doing, and well this one is no different. for me personally, i find a lot of her moveset to be pretty fair for the most part. but of course, the one move that breaks the entire fight wide open is waterfowl dance. this stupid piece of shit fucking move is the one thing that will kill any kind of momentum you feel you have. i didn't expect this fight to be easy, and i knew this was coming, so i had to try some stuff out. at first i tried using the giant crusher that i'd been using for the whole post game so far, but it's just too slow. it does a shit ton of damage, but she'd often just dodge it and i'd be left wide open, or i would stagger her and be unable to take advantage of it because she stands up faster than i seem to recover from my attack. trading with her also wasn't really an option because of the life steal she gains from every single attack, so any damage i did to her would just be mostly healed back while i was barely alive, so this didn't seem like it was going to work.

i swapped back to deaths poker, threw on all the armor i could without being heavy load, fixed my physick, and gave it some more attempts. in my head, i wasn't really sure if this was going to work. i knew that it took a second or two to get ghostflame ignition to go off, but i couldn't really imagine WHEN i could use it. but eventually, i learned some behavior from her that i could exploit. whenever i'd use the ash of war from a distance, she'd usually do one of two things: dash to the left to dodge the initial flame, then dash in to kick me, or dash to the right and then dash in to kick me. if i spaced it properly, she would do this move a majority of the time, i'd say like 70-80%. but once she's kicked me, she would usually be standing in the end of the ghostflame attack which would often be enough to get the frostbite to trigger and the damage was really good actually. with just two of these ghostflame attacks, i could get through about a third of her health bar. but at this point, she would unlock the ability to use waterfowl. every 25% of her health bar, so at 75%, 50%, and 25%, she seems to get the ability to use waterfowl. so whenever i had her underneath around 75%, i'd kind of just sit back and wait until she'd use it.

dodging waterfowl accurately depends on the distance you are from her once she decides to use it. if she used it while i was up close, i accepted that i was just fucked. to accurately dodge this, i'd have to unlock the camera and that is just not an option i'm fucking sorry. if it was medium distance, i felt pretty confident in dodging it, just outrun the first flurry, dodge into the second, then walk backwards for the third. this would usually get me hit a little bit, but i'd survive about 70% of the time and this is something i could accept. if it was from long distance, i'd just outrun the first two, and then dodge into the third. this one isn't too big of a problem.

it took a bit of getting used to, but eventually i got her to phase 2. now as much as i wish i could've killed her on my first try into the second phase, we all know i am not that lucky. the second phase is a different fight entirely, and in order to practice that, i'd have to get consistent at beating her first phase. but this was definitely easier said than done. the method i had seemed to work, but every attempt was different. sometimes she just would spam this triple slash move over and over. sometimes she would be oddly passive and focus on dodging. it was like she knew i was trying to bait out her waterfowl, and would wait for the most irritating moment possible to break it out, usually when i was right up close.

i figured that since it was one of the hardest fights in the game, i should probably buff up a bit more. so i went to mt gelmir and grabbed golden vow to buff my damage and damage negation a bit more. i went back to the roundtable to equip it onto a dagger and realized i'm fucking stupid and got the incantation version, not the ash of war version. now i know what you're saying, "you have flame grant me strength already, why not just equip a second incantation?" which i would do... if i had the ability to cycle through my spells. i don't have any binds left open. so instead, i got the ash of war version, put it on a dagger, equipped it in my secondary slot, and applied it that way. so now before every fight i had this buffing routine with the cube that felt like i was inputting some ancient magic code to help me kill this woman, but it felt cool to do.

it helped a bit, sometimes i would chunk up to almost 6000 hp from her at once with a single ghostflame ignition. the whole fight really came down to finding the windows to get this move off, then backing the fuck up until i could bait out a waterfowl. and with a few hours of practice i think i got pretty good at the first phase. a problem though is that this didn't really seem to work as well in the second phase. she feels a lot more aggressive and doesn't idle as often which is what i was taking advantage of initially. most of the moves i would punish in the first phase now had some explosion or follow up in the second phase. and even when i could do damage to her in the second phase, i'd often get hit and barely survive and burn through my pots while she just kept regening health.

but when i would survive long enough, she'd eventually break out this move where she spawns in the clones of herself to come and attack you. this move would fuck me up bad every time. i know that running backwards and just rolling away from the clones usually works or apparently rolling to the right as well, but i either just would fucking blank out and forget that or i'd be positioned poorly at the start of it and end up running into a wall. this move killed me pretty much every time she did it, which meant i'd have to do phase 1 again, and even though i was feeling better at it at this point, it was still fucking annoying. plus, and call me schizo if you want, but i swear she started functioning completely differently after long enough. she'd often string together 3 to 4 waterfowls in a row in the same phase as if just to spite me. or i'd make it to the second phase and, what do you know, the first thing she does is spam waterfowl.

at one point i started using blasphemous blade... i don't really know what i was trying to do here, but it didn't work so i instantly switched back. oh and uh incase i forgot to mention it, yeah the entire time i was doing this fight, the cube started tweaking out yet again, so i basically had to say a prayer before every run in hopes that the cube could hold a stable connection for 5 fucking minutes. the amount of times i would get input lag in the worst moments or die from the cube disconnecting on a really good run... i just lost count. then while i'm already annoyed, she has this mechanic where she'll just survive with 1hp sometimes and not die and then while i try to go in to phase her, she'd kill me.

this fight took everything i had to give, but if you slam you head against a wall long enough, eventually you'll break through.

the amount of relief i felt in this moment was unrivaled. it was a sense of accomplishment and joy and anger and frustration and genuine disbelief. i just killed the hardest boss in the game on a rubiks cube. like i fucking did that what the fuck dude. do you think miyazaki ever thought some moron like me would do this? like i genuinely might be the first person in the world to have done this.

[dlc]

and with malenia dead, the base game was more or less complete. but, i knew i could do more. it's time for the DLC.

the first course of action was to get new weapons. i beat the base game with three weapons pretty much and i thought it'd be boring to play the DLC with the same stuff. at this point i felt good enough with the cube to try and experiment a bit. i grabbed some skadoosh fragments, picked up the backhand blades, and went to get them max level. now the majority of the game i've tried to avoid using dex weapons or weapons that would require a lot of back to back inputs. whenever i'd use these kind of weapons the cube would start to break faster for some reason. like i was inputing too many turns too fast and it would get clogged up somewhere. but i wanted to try them out now since i haven't really used any since i did the rewrite.

so i went to try them on the blackgaol knight which apparently is now called the knight of the solitary gaol. i don't remember them changing his name but whatever, they weren't really working. so one last time i had to bring out the big bonk and sit him down. with this he dropped the solitude armor set which is really cool, but it's heavy as shit so i can't really use all of it. he also dropped his greatsword, so i went to level that one up as well. i just want a handful of weapons i can switch between whenever i feel like. i grabbed the savage lions claw ash of war because... well i mean come on i have to, and also grabbed the black steel greathammer from this church near the gravesite plains.

[dancing lion]

i looted a bit more, getting some more weapons, cracked tears, scooby fragments and made my way over to belurat. i had this ice spear build i wanted to try and it seemed to be doing decent damage. i made my way through the settlement, killed this guy that killed me more times than i can remember on my first playthrough, then went to fight the bowlcut bandit in the courtyard... yeah. he... he hurts pretty bad. but he died. i ran through the rest of the area and opened the doors to fight the first shadows of the erdtree boss: the dancing lion. now to be honest with you, this is my least favorite dlc boss. i think it's a really shit first one. it's a big boss, lame. it's actually just two guys underneath some cape, also lame. i suck at it, which of course automatically means it's bad. and yeah. but in reality i just always seem to be in the worst position possible with this thing. the arena is somewhat spacious, but the attacks the boss has almost always ends up shoving you in a corner.

even though i got it to 1hp on two different attempts, it didn't take me much longer to finish the job. i put the stonebarb cracked tear in my physick and put cragblade on my hammer which basically means that it only took 3-4 jump r2s to stagger the boss. also, remember how hitting crits is basically impossible on this piece of shit cube? yeah, it's not any better in the dlc. i could be right on the glowing spot and just fucking miss like i just can't do it. so this kind of build is a double edged sword. when it works and i can actually hit the crits, it's really strong.

[more looting]

with the dancing lion down, i tried to make my way over to castle ensis but the cube had other plans and figured that i should jump off the bridge. thanks cube. so i decided to do some more looting. i got some more scadus. ran through the ruined forge lava dungeon, and got the anvil hammer in the furnace at the end. i ran to the cerulean coast and wow i forgot how pretty this area is. i found a demi-human queen on the beach and almost died because of this stupid piece of shit enemy that would not relax for a second, but i killed her and got the star-lined sword. am i going to use all these weapons? probably not, but if i want them, i have them. i got to scadutree blessing level 5 and went back to castle ensis. i was kind of going off of instict because i really do not remember this area whatsoever. it's probably some form of ptsd from these dogs that apparently have ultra instinct because i just cannot kill them. the one on the way in killed me. the three at the bottom of the hole you have to jump in killed me. 3 times. i got through, opened the gate, and tried to remember where the hell i was supposed to go. somehow i survived this which... yeah i don't really know how either, and got to the grace right before rellana. 

[rellana]

now luckily for me, there's no first phase with crying children on the floor that i cannot hit. unluckily for me, i was getting my shit pushed in once again. i tried using the ice spear build on this fight since she's weak to pierce damage, but i do not think i was built properly for this because it was just terrible. i tried using the solitary greatsword but uh yeah that wasn't much better. i went back to the hammer build i beat the dancing lion with, but it's just... so short. it worked on the lion because it's a big boss and well it's kind of hard to miss up close. but rellana moves a ton. it's like she's dancing and i would just miss over, and over, and over again. so this isn't really gonna work either.

the next weapon i thought to try was the rusted anchor. it's a greataxe that scales with strength, but it does pierce damage. and with cragblade and my physick, it should work well. but then i remembered that there's actually water in this arena in the center, so lightning would probably work as an attunement. well, i went to try that, i equipped lightning on the rusted anchor, then all of a sudden my physick just stopped working. i just couldn't drink it. why this happened, i do not know. but i equipped frost on it and everything worked fine, so this is gonna have to do. and maybe it was a sign, but it actually did work.

[hippo]

now since the game is made by a bunch of sick fucks, the next boss as soon as i entered the shadow keep was the golden hippo. and you know my second attempt went well, i got it down to maybe 5-10% health. i thought this would take me maybe 4 or 5 tries at most. hah. hahaha. yeah that's real fucking funny dude. i was here for 45 minutes. i don't know what happened. i kept getting grabbed by his stupid big ass mouth. i just could not dodge it, and whenever i did dodge it, about 5 seconds later he'd decide yeah actually i'm gonna do that again and then of course i'm gonna get hit. it was basically 30 minutes of me going into the fog wall and dying with the next 10 seconds. then when i through the power of God himself was able to actually hit the damn thing and do damage, i'd stagger it, then miss the fucking stagger because i mean come on by now you should know i'm just gonna miss it every time it actually matters. or i'd stagger it and his head would be in a spot that i just physically could not get to. eventually, it died, but i felt nothing from winning, just emptiness.

[messmer]

but instead of just moving on through the castle, i decided to loop around and get the back entrance real quick since i'd need it later. there's a bit of platforming needed to actually get inside so you know i don't even have to tell you how that went. i got to the specimen storehouse, got some more fragments, some talismans, and made my way to messmer. i was actually kind of excited for this fight, which given the amount of suffering i've been through might seem a bit weird, but i actually really like fighting messmer so i thought it'd be fun. he's weak to bleed, so i tried putting bleed on the hammer but again i ran out of inches and kept missing. there's just no range on this thing. so instead i opted to run back across the map and get the bloodfiend's arm. it's basically a massive turkey leg colossal weapon that scales with strength and has a special bleed ability when you use the heavy attack. so, you already know the deal, max level, blood attunement, cragblade, and back to messmer. and yeah this thing is fucking insane. the bleed pop alone was doing over 5000 damage, and i wasn't even completely optimizing for it. between that, a crit, and a follow up, i could do a little over 10000 damage in a few seconds.

on a good run, i'd be able to get him into his second phase in as little as 20 seconds which felt like an accomplishment. at this point, i kind of forgot i'm using a rubiks cube to play, it sort of registered in my mind as a normal controller, like an extension of myself. i was getting pretty consistent. i'd get him to the second phase, but then die from just messing up my dodges or him deciding to do whatever this screech move is and then my health bar would disappear. but all in all, this was one of the more enjoyable fights of the entire process. messmers sick, and even though it took me a while to finally kill him, i wasn't really too annoyed.

[putrescent knight]

i forgot that once i got to shadow keep, the seal protecting the entrance to the stone coffin fissure was broken, which meant i could go fight the putrescent knight. the only thing stopping me were these stupid mother fuckers. i hate them. i want them dead. why are there so many. why are there birds that put me to sleep. why did i make it all the way to the end only to miss the jump and die and have to do it all again like 3 times.

i made it past them, but then i remembered there's this ghost misbegotten warrior that killed me so many times in my first run through but uhh he just decided to jump off after me. 

and i made it to the boss. just have to drop in and... yeah just give me a minute this only takes like 15 life seconds to drop in this defintely won't get annoying to do every time.

i was doing alright damage but nothing crazy, but i figured that since it seems to be an undead boss, i could use holy and do massive damage like i did to the death rite bird that dropped deaths poker. my plan was pretty simple: drop in, spin in a circle to reset my camera while i drank my physick, then just fucking run at him and swing. it only took 3 hits without cragblade to stagger, and if i could actually manage to hit the crit, he'd already be below half hp in like 10 seconds. staying close manages to avoid some attacks from his weapon, and i actually almost killed him before he did his phase transition move. the next try was just as good and i finished the fight in only a few tries. i thought this one was going to be a lot worse, but nah he got nuked.

[random -> sunflower]

i also remembered halfway through the dlc that i can get rememberence items, so i went and grabbed messmers spear and the putrescent knights sword. i thought that using the flame attacks from messmers spear would work really well against the next boss, the scadutree avatar. and while yes it does chunk it pretty hard, i'm also not exactly tanky enough to brain off spam this. i gave it a couple attempts but holy shit i do not remember this thing doing so much damage. i was dying so, so fast. and on top of that, the crit curse has returned once more, but this time it's actually an even bigger problem. at the end of each phase, the sunflower kind of falls over and has a crit spot on it's... face? i think? if you hit it, the next phase it spawns in with a lot less hp, like 30% less or something crazy. so every time i knocked it down, and every time i missed, i was actively making the fight harder than it needed to be.

messmers spear wasn't really working and i'm sorry but the deaths poker was calling to me, it was whispering my name. i'm an addict and it was like some fresh crack straight out of the kitchen so how can you expect me to say no? and for what it's worth like look how much damage this thing does holy SHIT. but yeah, even that couldn't save me. i just kept getting caught by these thorns or kept getting tackled by a fucking linebacker or my camera would spazz the fuck out trying to keep locked on. it was just not a great time. and not to mention this thing has 3 phases. 3!! of every boss they could've given 3 phases, they give it to a fucking sunflower. i am embarassed to say that i spent over an hour trying to beat this thing and just couldn't make it happen so i rage quit and went to bed and felt like a loser... and then i woke up the next day and did it on my first try. this shit always happens i swear it's like your brain needs to download everything and store it in a specific spot in your brain while you sleep and then all of a sudden it's just the easiest thing in the world.

[gaius]

to get to the next boss, i gotta do some platforming. great, my favorite. just have to be careful and take my time and not do whatever the fuck that was. alright better better i just gotta kill this guy that shouldn't be too hard oh ok sick. let me try that again oh alright man great i'll fuck myself you know what bring out the fucking giant crusher somebody crush this guys balls. and you know the best part? this wasn't even where i needed to go.

stupid ass game whatever i made it to the next boss and yeah it's commander gaius and yeah it's exactly as shitty as you'd expect. it's basically the same thing as the golden hippo except even worse. he starts every single run with this charge attack. dodging to either side doesn't work and you're supposed to dodge directly through it. you can do the same dodge 3 times in a row. sometimes you'll dodge it entirely, sometimes you'll take a bit of damage, and sometimes you'll take a ton of damage despite dodging it the same way. well here's the thing, it's actually rng and i can prove it.

jamie break out the hitbox analysis.

so this is gaius' charge attack. if you didn't know, hitboxes aren't actually boxes, they're spheres or capsules or really anything but a box. the problem are these two spheres. they're not actually attached to gaius at all, they're just attached to the ground for a few frames, then despawn and reappear along the path he's moving. what this means is that if you're rolling and finish your roll on a frame where the sphere is still there, you're gonna get hit. but if you finish your roll one frame later, you're fine. so on one frame, this is how far you need to roll to clear it, and on the next frame this is how much further you have to roll to fully dodge the attack. i'm not coping i swear.

i just couldn't reliably get this dodge down. i know you could use torrent and dismount at the right time but that wasn't working for me either because the timing felt pretty precise. i wanted to see if i could maybe sit in the corner to stop his charge but uh no i got the godskin noble treatment again. if i could manage to dodge the initial charge i'd actually do a lot of damage. i could get him into the second phase relatively quickly since he'd stagger with only a couple of hits, and then once he does his airstrike move, if i was fast enough, i could build up another stagger with only a few more hits. it took me quite a while to get a run where i could string it all together. if i messed up and missed an attack or got kicked in the face by the boar, it was kind of hard to recover. but ultimately i was able to lock in and take him out. my reward was 5 more slop fragments at the top of the scadutree chalice.

[to bayle]

with some of the more annoying bosses out of the way, i wanted to go to a boss that i was pretty excited for. i swapped off of the turkey leg and upgraded the anvil hammer to +9 and then found igon sitting in the middle of the road. i went into the dragon cave, got distracted by a shiny object, and got stomped by a magma wyrm that i completely forgot existed... and then failed to hit a crit yet again. but killing it drops me an ancient dragon smithing stone which will be nice for later. i found the fog wall, found the ancient dragon-man himself, and stunlocked the shit out of him until he died and dropped me the dragon-hunters great katana which will be perfect for the next boss. i made it do the jagged peak, found the two dragons fighting each other and... kind of just watched for a few minutes. they'll just fight each other and do a lot of the work for me, and i'm a lazy piece of shit so this is perfect. now i would use torrent to fight but in all honesty it's 10 times harder because i can only ever swing to my right side which means my positioning needs to be perfect and i can barely even play the game as is so i said fuck that and ran at it with the anvil hammer until it died. and igon watched the whole thing and he was proud of me and that made me happy. i ran up the mountain some more, saw senessax and decided that i really just don't wanna fight him to be honest, so i didn't. my punishment for that was getting completely lost on the mountaintop for a solid 10 minutes before falling off and dying, then having to run all the way back just to get lost again, and as usual, die again. i found another ancient smithing stone though, so there's that. but i finally had made my way to the site of grace outside of bayles arena. i went and upgraded the katana i got from the ancient dragon-man, ran in, and died without doing a single point of damage. you should know that by now.

[bayle]

bayle was uhhh... something else. my second attempt was pretty good, i phased him and thought alright this isn't too bad. boy was i fucking wrong. i like bayle as a boss don't get me wrong, he's probably my favorite dragon boss in the entire game. but holy fuck dude these fire breath attacks had me seconds away from putting a hole through my desk. jamie break out the hitbox analysis again.

as before, the fire breath attack hitboxes aren't actually the fire itself, there's just a bunch of different spheres flying at you. for the most part this is fine, but the one problem is that these hitboxes interact with physics objects in the arena. anything else that has collision will collide with these hitboxes and cause them to bounce. and in bayles arena, there are rocks and shit on the floor that these hitboxes bounce off of, most of which you just cannot fucking see, so judging the attack by the visual cue itself is super unreliable because sometimes, the hitbox isn't even there. and to make matters worse, every time i got hit by it, i'd get knocked to the ground because i have no armor on like a big stupid idiot. this was really only an issue for the straight forward breath attack and sometimes the wiggly one. the attack where he breathes fire directly down was annoying in it's own way since he'd seem to end so many different combos with it which meant i really had no opening to attack. if i stayed close to him, he'd use it to flush me out. if i stayed too far away, he'd use the other fire breath moves. even if i was playing optimally and dodging his physical attacks, he'd often end combos by jumping away and breathing fire at me again which usually knocked me over and either the process would repeat or i would more often than not just die.

then there's the move where he screams and calls in 40 different lightning strikes which felt like i was having a seizure at times. this would be especially annoying because if i was underneath him, i couldn't really back up out of it because even though there's definitely space here, i'd get stuck under his leg and i wouldn't have a good time.

however once i phased him, i had another concern in that i might not be able to dodge the fireballs he shoots from the sky because i didn't feel like i had the best control over where i was running but no i could just run straight forward and the camera lock would keep me protected. that is until it would sometimes unlock when he'd go behind the terrain and i'd basically have to go off of raw instinct and hope i dodge at the right time. this fight was mostly just a bunch of different minor bullshit occurances instead of one big one, other than the hitboxes on the breath attacks which can just go fuck themselves. it took me a long time to get through this because it felt like i barely got any openings to take advantage of and when i would i would somehow manage to miss this big ass fucking dragon infront of me which is actually impressive. i got a lot of runs through the second phase where i'd get him to maybe 20-25% hp and i'd die and lose like 5 or 6 real life minutes, but it felt like this massive wall i could not get past. when you get him down low enough, he'll do this double sweep attack where he'll sweep from left to right and then from top to bottom. i don't know why i was so shit at this but holy fuck i died to it almost every single time.

after 4 hours of attempts, which saying it out loud is really embarassing jesus man, i finally taped both of my remaining brain cells together and gave it one last attempt.

[flaccid ballsack]

with bayle dead, i remembered something. since i'm doing all the rememberance bosses from the DLC, i should probably go back and do the other rememberance bosses from the base game, and what better place to start than with dragonlord flaccid ballsack. just need to do some more parkouring alright yep as expected. and uh, i don't know why but i thought i'd be doing a lot more damage than this, and after fighting bayle for 4 hours, i'd had enough dragon fights for the rest of the year so i wanted to make this quick. so i went to the church of vows to pay a visit to the homie miriel and bought the ancient dragons' lightning strike. even though placidusax uses the lightning itself, it's weak to it for whatever reason. so i equipped it, ran back to the fight, then the cube disconnected so i did the run for nothing. it was especially annoying here because the runback wasn't exactly easy or short. also the damage was just crazy inconsistent. i don't know what i was doing wrong but sometimes i'd hit for 400 damage, sometimes i'd hit for 800, sometimes i'd hit for 4000. i don't fucking know. i know the actual way to use this is to charge it up but that's not exactly an option now is it. i couldn't really get it down below half hp consistently, but my friend told me to try swarm of flies instead. yeah that was fucking stupid and a waste of time. so i went back to the lightning strike and threw on talismans that would buff any lightning damage.

i genuinely did nothing but spam the lightning incantation over and over and over again and yeah it was surprisingly effective even though i wasn't really built for it.

[sewer mohg + deeproot]

the next rememberance boss i had to kill was rich dragon forty stacks himself, but he was all the way in deeproot depths and i had not been there yet. there were two ways for me to get there: either doing the duo gargoyle fight or go through the sewers, kill the other mohg, and then do the platforming down. for me this was an obvious decision... of course i'm going through the sewers what the fuck you think i'm going to do a 1v2 with this thing?

so i figured i could use the same build that i killed the other mohg with. i fucked up a few times but yeah this one wasn't that much different. but now came the real issue. breaking the wall behind sewer mohg lead me to the platforming section of the cathedral. this place is already hard to platform as is, but doing it with the cube while also not being able to look down was as close to as impossible as it was going to get. at first i thought i could maybe just brute force it by figuring out the route from scratch and then just copying it every time. and yeah this probably would've worked but it also would've taken me fucking forever so i'm not gonna do that. i really thought i was gonna be stuck here and have to go fight the twin gargoyles to get through. but it turns out the key to getting through was right infront of me, there's an enemy in this room and he's just sitting here. now it's a long shot, but i just might be able to take advantage of a mechanic involving a critical hit. now given my luck throughout this run, that's a big ask, but i don't have any other option. this enemy is actually super passive and won't attack, so i was able to move him around by unequipping my weapon and just smacking him around. if i could position him properly and get a backstab off in the perfect spot, i can take advantage of the fact that while you're in a crit animation, you aren't affected by fall damage. i might be able to slide off the edge and just pray that i make it all the way to the bottom. but this wasn't exactly the easiest thing to pull off.

despite everything i've done in this run so far, this is the single thing i am the most proud of. when i landed at the bottom i truly could not believe what i just did and the fact that it actually worked like my brain was exploding.

i made it to deeproot finally, and more platforming please kill me.

and then after all that, i just had to make it up to the arena, it should be as easy as jumping off the tree branch.

[fias champions]

fias champions in reality didn't stand a chance. i thought a gank fight with 3 NPCs might have been really bad but no they all got shit on. but now is where things get a bit annoying, i completely forgot that in order to actually fight fortissax, i had to do fias entire questline, and to do that i had to do part of rannis questline... buttttt i had already beat the base game which meant i was probably going to be locked out of this but surprisingly i actually wasn't locked out at all. i could still do every part i needed to. i just had to talk to her a lot, flip the building upside down, die more times than i'd like to admit, lose my mind for a few minutes, get ganked by godskin noble AGAIN, and finally grab the cursemark of death from the divine tower of liurnia. then go back to fia, give it to her, get the blessing, talk to her again like a billion times and then FINALLY i could go into the deathbed dream to fight mr stacks himself. now to be honest fortissax is not a difficult boss. he is extremely squishy and really not that challenging. but at this point i had lost my mind fighting bayle, placidusax, doing the platforming to get here, and doing all of the quest shit that my mental could not handle much more.

[forty stacks]

i keep trying to make messmers spear work and my first run i got him pretty low but for some reason i killed myself thinking i could get a "cleaner run" which was a mistake. i kept dying and kept getting angrier and angrier. i switched back to the anvil hammer, got it down super low again, died again, got angrier. and fortunately killed it on my next run which probably spared my entire setup.

[deer]

next was the regal ancestor spirit. fortunately getting this one was a lot easier, just light a bunch of the towers, touch the horns, realize i fucking did the wrong one because for some reason there are two of these things, then have to go do the same thing but for the other one. but the cool thing is that i was actually able to kill a boss with messmers spear, so go me i guess.

[astel]

next was astel which i forgot how to get to. ah great, the lake of rot. so ran through that, hopped in the coffin, and teleported to astels arena. i swapped back to the anvil hammer and kind of just sat in his face and spammed the ash of war which worked really well. i thought it'd be worse due to how skinny he is and how many AOE attacks and explosions he had but no i kind of just turned my brain off. and with astel dead, that's all of the base game rememberance bosses dead. i know i didn't really have to do these, but the tism in my brain wouldn't let me leave them undone.

[to midra]

back in the shadow realm, the next boss i had to get to was midra which meant going through the spooky forest. i had to think really hard about how to get to that area because other than my first and second clear of the DLC when it first came out, i don't think i ever came back? but funnily enough it was yet another coffin teleporter, then a bit more running, which ultimately lead to the darklight catacombs. this place is... well, dark. and i was doing this turning the day on an OLED monitor which meant i could not see a single fucking thing in here. i put on a torch, ran through, got blown into to pieces, then ended up at the door before jori who was guarding the entrance to the abyssal woods. jori isn't a hard boss, but they do have a lot of spam attacks and spawn in enemies that i honestly didn't wanna deal with, soooooo giant-crusher seemed to do the trick.

now the abyssal woods area has these enemies that will grab you if they see you or you make any loud noises. you can't fight them, and running isn't easy either. my problem is... i can't crouch, so i'd most definitely get killed if i tried to do this normally. but i have a trick up my sleeve. i went to the mirage rise in altus, did the quick puzzle, and grabbed the unseen form incantation. then i went to volcano manor and bought the assassins gambit ash of war. by casting unseen form i would be partially invisible, then casting assassins gambit would silence my footsteps, which in combination would almost entirely mask my presense. this made getting through the woods super trivial. i made it to the manor, dropped the ladder, fell off the roof... twice. found the other lever behind a hidden painting, and made it to the grace outside of midras boss room. 

[midra]

midras a sick ass fight. i love his character design and stumbling upon a boss like this in the middle of this scary ass forest is really fitting. i switched up my weapon and thought i'd try the blood milady. i wanted a weapon that hit a bit quicker. some of his combos get pretty long, like 5 or 6 or 7 hits i can't even remember. and dodging all of them reliably was pretty tough. i'd often get him to phase 2 and then get hit by him torpedoing directly into me or i'd get inflicted with madness and that'd be the end of it. i wanted something with a bit more mobility to it, so i swapped to the backhand blades i grabbed all the way back at the start of the DLC. and this seemed to do the trick because i got him on my first try with them, the run wasn't flawless by any means, but it felt super intense and was one of the more enjoyable experiences of this playthrough.

[metyr]

next was metyr which required me to do an entire questline for once again. it's not that awful, just a bit time consuming. i grabbed the o mother emote, went to blow in this weird finger thing, used the emote infront of the statue to gain access to the top right part of the map, went to blow in the next weird finger thing but instead got grabbed and sucked by these monstrosities like what the fuck are these i wiped them out of my memory... for good reason. but i finished that, went back to ymir's throne, went underneath after struggling... a few times to get down the ladder. then i styled on anna like... really badly i embarassed her, blew in yet ANOTHER finger and i'm in the metyr fight. this one was weird. i hate the finger enemies in the game. they're scary. i don't like them. plus metyr is pretty big and can hit you from anywhere in the arena it seems. infront of her, beside her, behind her, far away from her. then she turns into a beyblade and slams the fuck out of you. plus, she spawns more enemies. please devs, stop doing this, i can't take it. i just had to not be greedy for a few minutes, smack her weird finger stomach pouch thing a lot, and the fight was over.

[romina]

and now with all the side bosses out of the way, all that's left is the a beeline straight to the end. i went to the ancient ruins and immediately got revenge on a hippo for the anguish i went through earlier... piece of shit, then booked it immediately to romina. i swapped back to the milady for this fight for no reason other than i really like the moveset. i put the blood tax ash of war on it which causes bleed to build up super quickly through it's quick pokes. i got her to about half hp on my first try which was promising. she's not too tough of a boss if you can stay close to her when she's on the ground and dodge her butterflies and scarlet rot moves whenever she casts them. my second run was going even better, but i eventually got rotted, started making mistakes, and lost it with about 10% hp left. but fortunately for me something i had for breakfast this day was coursing through my veins because on my third attempt i ran back in and just mopped the floor with this woman.

[to NPCs]

and with romina down, we were free to burn the tree for a second time, telporting us to the final area of the game, enir-ilim. from what i remember, this area was pretty tough, especially with these guys being everywhere. but either i got better, or the game got easier, because honestly they weren't a problem. i kind of remembered the route from my original playthroughs, because i died here... a lot. to this guy for one, and to these infinitely ring spamming mage fuckers that stun lock you and do so much damage. but it appears i have grown as a player and have become much more talented because i killed this guy on my first tr-... i killed this guy on my second try, barely survived killing this spamming piece of shit, and full sprinted to the door. i traversed the rooftops, pummeled the shit out of some more birds, found a frost version of the guy i just killed but --- i don't wanna fight this one i don't like him. so i ran past him, and eventually only one more remained between me and the next fight.

[leda fight]

now for the NPC gank fight, i had a plan in mind. using midras rememberance weapon, you get the golden crux ash of war that pretty much shoves the sword through 
